## Ethereum APIs:

### There are two major categories of APIs. 
- The first one is the management APIs, that includes admin, debug, miner, personal, and txpool.
	- They support methods for management of the geth node.
- The second one is the web3 API, web3, eth, and net. 
	- They support methods for development of Dapps.

### Mangaements APIs:
-  Admin API 
	- allows you to use functions to work with your Geth instance, 
	- including network peer and the RPC endpoint management. 
	- Examples, admin.addPeer(), 
- Debug API, 
	- example Debug.dumpBlock(16). 
	- This will display the block header details of block 16. 
	- You can observe that the debug API provides you the ability to peek into the blockchain, study it, and debug any issues by looking at the block.
- Miner API
	- allows you to control the nodes mining operation and set various mining specific settings.
- Personal API 
	- deals with the creation and management of accounts within a node. 
	- It also manages private keys in the key store
- Txpool API, the Txpool, or transaction pool API, 
	- gives you access to several non-standard RPC methods to inspect the contents of the transaction pool, containing all the currently pending transaction, as well as those queued for future processing. 

### Web3 API:
- Web3.js library, when included into Dapp, lets you use web3 object provided by the web3.js library and all its objects. 
	- It also lets you communicate with a local node through the RPC port.
	- It also provides access to the eth object and its function via web3.eth, and net object via web3.net, and their respective function.
	- You can also access other management APIs to the web3 object.

#### There is also Whisper API, web3.ssh. It is used for secure gossiping and enables the Whisper protocol.

<p align="right">
   <a href="../3.2%20Truffle%20Development/3.2.1%20Truffle%20IDE.md">Next Chapter</a>
</p>
