## Client Applications

- use solidity feature called Events to Interface with Client Application
- The application can listen to the events pushed, using a listener code, to track transactions, to receive results through parameters of the event, initiate a pull request to receive information from the smart contract. 


### Contract confidentiality
- That means if I have a smart contract between you and me, I'll agree to give you three cookies if you give me four doughnuts. 
- But if on Thursday at noon you give me your four donuts, I'll give you five cookies. 
- But if LIBOR goes over six percent, I'll give you 20 cookies. 
- The problem is if I write it in traditional client server code, if I have root access to the server, then you can't be sure that I can't change the rules. 
- I can write all those rules in any kind of code I want. 
- The problem is if I write it in traditional client server code, if I have root access to the server, then you can't be sure that I can't change the rules. 
- If you have root access to the control of the server, I can't be sure that you're not doing it or we have to trust some third party or the government and nobody wants that. 
- So, that's the problem that blockchain for industry solves in that we can say we all have control, we all have control of our information, we all have had the control of agreeing on a set of rules between us, business rules. But none of us is in control of the system through which we're doing business, 
and that's the trick. 
- It's a social problem that we are solving. 


### What the blockchain really presents as an evolution of the Internet is the notion of 
- Immutable shared rules
- Treaties on the blockchain, 
- Taxes on the blockchain, 
- Regulations on the blockchain, 
  - and maybe even one day writing the code of a regulation or a law and debugging it before it's sent to Congress to pass. 

<p align="right">
   <a href="../2.4%20Best%20Practices/2.4.1%20Best%20Practices.md">Next Chapter</a>
</p>
