# Ethereum Structure

### Account:

- accounts are basic units of Ethereum protocol.
- The account is the originator and the target of a transaction. 
- A transaction directly updates the account balances as opposed to maintaining the state such as in the bitcoin UTXOs. 
- It allows for transmit of value and messages and data between the accounts that may result in the state transitions. 


### Two types of Accounts:

- EOA
- CA

### EOA:
- Externally Owned Accounts or EOA are controlled by private keys. 
- An externally owned account is needed to participate in the Ethereum network. 
- It interacts with the blockchain using transactions. 

### CA:
- Contract Accounts or CA are controlled by the code and can be activated only by an EOA. 
- A Contract Account represents a smart contract. 

### Key differences
#### Externally-owned:
- Creating an account costs nothing
- Can initiate transactions
- Transactions between externally-owned accounts can only be ETH/token transfers

#### Contract:
- Creating a contract has a cost because you're using network storage
- Can only send transactions in response to receiving a transaction
- Transactions from an external account to a contract account can trigger code which can execute many different actions, such as transferring tokens or even creating a new contract

### Ethereum accounts have four fields:
- nonce 
  – A counter that indicates the number of transactions sent from the account. This ensures transactions are only processed once. In a contract account, this number represents the number of contracts created by the account.
- balance 
  – The number of wei owned by this address. Wei is a denomination of ETH and there are 1e+18 wei per ETH.
- codeHash 
  – This hash refers to the code of an account on the Ethereum virtual machine (EVM). Contract accounts have code fragments programmed in that can perform different operations. This EVM code gets executed if the account gets a message call. It cannot be changed, unlike the other account fields. All such code fragments are contained in the state database under their corresponding hashes for later retrieval. This hash value is known as a codeHash. For externally owned accounts, the codeHash field is the hash of an empty string.
- storageRoot 
  – Sometimes known as a storage hash. A 256-bit hash of the root node of a Merkle Patricia trie that encodes the storage contents of the account (a mapping between 256-bit integer values), encoded into the trie as a mapping from the Keccak 256-bit hash of the 256-bit integer keys to the RLP-encoded 256-bit integer values. This trie encodes the hash of the storage contents of this account, and is empty by default.

### WEI:
- Fees are paid in Wei. 
- Wei is a lower denomination of Ether. 
- One Ether 10 to the power of 18 Weis.

### Transaction:
An Ethereum transaction includes not only fields what transfer of Ethers but also messages for invoking Smart contract.
A transaction in Ethereum includes:
- the recipient of the message, 
- digital signature of the sender authorizing the transfer, 
- amount of Wei to transfer, 
- an optional data field or payload that contains a message to a contract, 
- STARTGAS which is a value representing 
- the maximum number of computational steps the transaction is allowed. 
- Gas price a value representing the fee sender is willing to pay for the computations.


### Links:
Account Management

