# Ethereum Operations

- An Ethereum node is a computational system representing a business entity or an individual participant. 
- An Ethereum full node hosts the software needed for transaction initiation, validation, mining, block creation, smart contract execution and the Ethereum Virtual Machine, EVM. 
- Smart contract is designed, developed, compiled and deployed on the EVM 
- There can be more than one smart contract in an EVM. 
- When the target address in a transaction is a smart contract,  the execution code corresponding to the smart contract is activated and executed on the EVM. 
- The input needed for this execution is extracted from the payload field of the transaction. 
- Current state of the smart contract is the values of the variables defined in it. 
- The state of the smart contract may be updated by this execution. 
- Results of this execution is stored in the receipts. 
- A blockchain maintains both the state hash and the receipt hash.
- Transaction validation involves checking the time-stamp and the nonce combination to be valid and the availability of sufficient fees for execution. 
- Miner nodes in the network receive, verify, gather and execute transactions. 
- The in-work smart contract code are executed by all miners. 
- Validated transactions are broadcast and gathered for block creation. 
- The consensus protocol used is a memory-based rather than a CPU-based proof of work

### Gas
- "Gas" is the name for a special unit used in Ethereum. 
- It measures how much "work" an action or set of actions takes to perform: for example, to calculate one Keccak256 cryptographic hash it will take 30 gas each time a hash is calculated, plus a cost of 6 more gas for every 256 bits of data being hashed.

### Difference b/w Bitcoin and Ethereum Transaction fee:

- The reason gas is important is that it helps to ensure an appropriate fee is being paid by transactions submitted to the network. 
- By requiring that a transaction pay for each operation it performs (or causes a contract to perform), we ensure that network doesn't become bogged down with performing a lot of intensive work that isn't valuable to anyone. 
- This is a different strategy than the Bitcoin transaction fee, which is based only on the size in kilobytes of a transaction. Since Ethereum allows arbitrarily complex computer code to be run, a short length of code can actually result in a lot of computational work being done.
- So it's important to measure the work done directly instead of just choosing a fee based on the length of a transaction or contract.

### Transaction fee
- total gas used multiplied by gas price paid, that results in the total fee paid by a transaction.
- If your gas price is too low, no one will process your transaction
- If your gas price is fine but the gas cost of your transaction runs "over budget" the transaction fails but still goes into the blockchain, and you don't get the money back for the work that the labourers did.
- This makes sure that nothing runs forever, and that people will be careful about the code that they run. It keeps both miners and users safe from bad code!

### Links
What Is Meant By The Term “Gas”?

<p align="right">
   <a href="./1.2.4 Incentive Model.md">Next Chapter</a>
</p>

