# Smart Contracts

- A smart contract is a piece of code deployed in the blockchain node. 
- Execution of a smart contract is initiated by a message embedded in the transaction. 
- Digital currency transfer request simple addition and subtraction. Ethereum enables transaction that may carry out more sophisticated operations. 
- For example, a transaction could require a conditional transfer, it may require some evaluation, it may need more than one signature for transfer of assets, or it may involve waiting for a specific time or date. 

### Let's consider an example of what a smart contract can do: 

- An auction bidding smart contract could execute this logic. 
- If the age of a bidder is greater than 18 and the bid is greater than the minimum bid, 
- then, accept the bid, or else reject the bid. 
- This can be done by a smart contract. 
	
### What does the smart contract look like? How do you write a smart contract?:

- Structurally, a smart contract resembles a class definition in an object oriented design. 
- It has data, functions or methods with modifiers public or private, along with getter and set of functions. 
- Specific programming languages have been designed for coding smart contracts. 
- Solidity is one such language. 
	
### Where does the code in the smart contract get executed? Where is it located in a node?:

- We need a computational infrastructure to execute any arbitrary code. 
- Every node in Ethereum network should be able to execute the code irrespective of that underlying type of hardware or operating system. 

### Ethereum Virtual Machine, EVM:

- An EVM provides a run anywhere obstruction layer for the contract code. 
- A smart contract written a high level programming language is translated into EVM byte code, and then, deployed on the Ethereum Virtual Machine, EVM. 
- Every node will host the same smart contract codes on the EVM. 

### Summary:

- Smart contracts add a layer of logic and computation to the trust infrastructure supported by the blockchain. 
- Smart contracts allow for execution of code, enhancing the basic value transfer capability of the Bitcoin blockchain. 
- The code for this smart contract is written in a high level language like Solidity and compiled into byte code. 
- The code for the smart contracts is executed on a special structure known as Ethereum Virtual Machine.

### Links:
What is Ethereum?
Smart Contracts: The Blockchain Technology That Will Replace Lawyers
Introduction to Smart Contracts

