	- a decentralized peer-to-peer system can be realized independent of a blockchain. 
	- Interplanetary Files System, IPFS, is a fine example of such a system. 
	- IPFS is a decentralized model for file transfer in contrast to centralize namespace and transfer provided by HTTP family of protocols. 
	- HTTP or Hypertext Transfer Protocol operates in a centralized hierarchical namespace.

	- PFS leverages & combines many successful peer-to-peer system ideas. 
	- These ideas are: 
	- Global distributed file system, 
		○ IPFS is about distribution decentralization, content-based identification using secure hash of contents as a file location identifier, and resolving locations using Distributed Hash Table. 
	- Block exchanges 
		○ using  popular Bittorrent based peer-to-peer file distribution protocol, and Incentivized block exchange using Bitswap protocol,  and Merkel DAG, Directed Acyclic Graph, version-based organization of files, similar to Git version control system. 
	-  self-certification of storage node servers for security. 
		○ Files are located in a distributed system. 
		○ A distributed hash table maintains a location of the files.
		○ Instead of identifying the resource by its location as an HTTP, IPFS identifies the resource by its content or by the secure hash of its contents.

	- How do you resolve the location? Just like you have a URL or a link of a website, 
	- you start with the hash identifier of the resource. 
	- You send around a request for anyone with the resource with this identifier. 
	- On success will response, access it peer-to-peer. 
	- The hash is the key, in the key, value pair, and the value is the location of the file or the resource. 
	- The routing part of the IPFS protocol maintains distributed hash table or DHT for locating the nodes as well as the file objects. 
	- A simple DHT holds a hash as the key, location as the value. 
	- A key can directly map onto the location stored in DHT.
