## Dapp Standards	

- EIP is an approach to process improvement in Ethereum ecosystem. 
- EIP or Ethereum Improvement Proposal is a means to manage the protocol specification, improvements, updates, client APIs and contract standards. 
- EIP handles issues at four different categories including; 
	- core, or core Ethereum protocol, 
	- network, or network level improvement, 
	- interface, or interfaces such as ABI and RPC, 
	- ERC, or application level conventions and standards.

- ERC is Ethereum Request for Comments, like RFCs of the Internet. 
- ERC proposal for application level issues are given a proposal ID, thus, become ERCN. 
- Example, ERC20, ERC721, et cetera. 
- The solution draft is proposed by the ERC document and discussed in the community. 
- The ERCs are available on the GitHub and discussed on the GitHub and subreddits. 
- The result could be accepted, rejected, withdrawn or deferred. 
- An accepted ERC is finalized and is allocated an EIP number and implemented by the protocol.

- ERC20 is specified as a smart contract interface. 
- It specify a set of rules that allow token DApps to interact with each other to be exchanged with each other, and transact on Ethereum network.

	image
	
	
### NFT & ERC 721:

- tokens that cannot be exchanged one-to-one. 
- And ERC 721 is a non-fungible token standard. 
- The non-fungible token concept was brought to prominence by the DApp, CryptoKitties.
	- CryptoKitties is an Ethereum ERC-721 compliant tool. 
	- It became widely popular, exposing many to the cryptoworld.
	- Of course, since it conforms to ethereum 721 token, it piggybacks on the Ethereum blockchain.

### Summary:
- ERC token standards are being proposed for identity, governance, and security.
- These tokens and EIPs of Ethereum are sure to transform DApp ecosystem into a mainstream application framework, and decentralization into a norm.

