# Public-key Cryptography

### Two techniques are predominantly used for securing the chain and for efficient validation and verification:

- Hashing and 
- asymmetric key encryption.


### Problem:

- Blockchain's decentralized network participants,  are not necessarily known to each other. 
- Participants can join and leave the chain as they wish. They operate beyond the boundaries of trust. 
- Given this context., 
  - how do you identify the peer participants?
  - How do you authorize and authenticate the transactions? 
  - How do you detect forged or faulty transactions?


### Symmetric key encryption:

- The same key is used for encryption and decryption,
- Example, Ceasar encryption

### Issues:

- it is easy to derive the secret key from the encrypted data. 
- the key distribution, how do you pass the key to the participant transacting?  When participants are unknown in a decentralized network

### Public key:

- Instead of a single secret key, it employs two different keys that take care of both the issues of symmetric key encryption
- The public-key private key pair has the unique quality that even though a data is encrypted with the private key,  it can be decrypted with the corresponding public-key and vice versa

### ECC:

- Though RSA is very commonly used in many applications,  block chains need a more efficient and stronger algorithm. 
- Elliptic Curve Cryptography, ECC family of algorithms is used in the bitcoin as well as an Ethereum block chain for generating the key pair. 
- ECC is stronger than RSA for a given number of bits. 
- 256 bit ECC key pair is equal in strength to about 3072 bits of RSA key pair. 
- ECC allows resource-constrained systems like smartphones, embedded computers, and cryptocurrency networks to use ~10% of the storage space and bandwidth required by RSA.

### Reading:
[Basic Intro to Elliptic Curve Cryptography](https://qvault.io/cryptography/elliptic-curve-cryptography/)

<p align="right">
   <a href="./1.3.2 Hashing.md">Next Chapter</a>
</p>
