	• Hashing plays a critical role in the blockchain process, and also in the integrity of the transaction and confidentiality of data.

	• A hash function or hashing transforms and maps an arbitrary length of input data value to a unique fixed length value. 
	• Input data can be a document, tree data, or a block data. 
	• Even a slight difference in the input data would produce a totally different hash output value. 

### Hashing Requirements:
### The algorithm chosen for the hash function should: 
    • be a one-way function and 
    • it should be collision free,  or exhibit extremely low probability of collision


	• Most common hash size now is 256 bits and the common functions are SHA-3, SHA-256 and Keccak. 
	• A 256-bit hash value space is indeed very large. 
	• 2 to the power of 256 possible combinations of values. 
	• That is approximately 10 to the power of 77. 
	• That is 10 followed by 77 zeros. 
	• Odds of a meteor hitting your house is higher than generating two of the same hash values of 256 bits when applying this algorithm


## Techniques:
### Simple hash, Merkle tree hash:

	• In the simple hash approach, all the data items are linearly arranged and hashed. 
	• In a tree-structured approach, the data is at the leaf nodes of the tree, leaves are pairwise hashed to arrive at the same hash value as a simple hash.

	• When we have a fixed number of items to be hashed, such as the items in a block header, and we are verifying the composite block integrity and not the individual item integrity, we use simple hash. 
	• When the number of items differ from block to block, for example, number of transactions, number of states, number of receipts, we use the tree structure for computing the hash. 
	• Note that the state is a variable that may be modified by a smart contract execution, and the result of the execution may be returned in a receipt.

## Ethereum uses Keccak-256

Links
What Is Hashing? Under The Hood of Blockchain

