### To manage the integrity of a transaction, we need:

	• secure a unique account address. 
	• authorization of the transaction by the sender through digital signing. 
	• verification that the content of that transaction is not modified.

### Account addresses:

	• Addresses of accounts are generated using public key, private key pair. 
	• 256-bit random number is generated, and designated as the private key. Kept secure and locked using a passphrase. 
	• an ECC algorithm is applied to the private key, to get a unique public key. This is the private public key pair. 
	• a hashing function is applied to the public key to obtain account address. The address is shorter in size,  only 20 bytes or 160 bits. 

### Process:

	• find the hash of the data fields of the transaction. 
	• encrypt that hash using the private key of the participant originating the transaction, thus, digitally signing the transaction to authorize and making the transaction non-repudiable. 
	• this hash, just added to the transaction. can be verified by others by decrypting it using the public key of the sender of the transaction, and recomputing the hash of the transaction. Then, compare the computed hash, and the hash received at the digital signature. 
	• If that is a match, accept the transaction. Otherwise, reject it. 
	• Note that for the complete transaction verification, the timestamp, nons, account balances, and sufficiency of fees are also verified.

### Digital signing of a transaction/document involves, hashing the content of the document and then encrypting it with private key


