# Bitcoin & Blockchain

## Applications of Blockchain:
The blockchain is poised to innovate and transform a wide range of applications, 
Including: 

	- goods transfer, for example, supply chain. 
	- Digital media transfer, for example, sale of art. 
	- Remote services delivery, example, travel and tourism. 
	- Platform for decentralized business logic, for example, moving computing to data sources. 
	- distributed intelligence, example, education credentialing. 

### Additional applications of blockchain include:

	- distributed resources, for example, power generation and distribution. 
	- Crowd funding for example, startup fund raising. 
	- Crowd operations, for example, electronic voting. 
	- Identity management, for example, one ID for all your life's functions. 
	- And government public records and open governing


## Major contributions of Bitcoin:

	- continuously working digital currency system, and 
	- a model for autonomous decentralized application technology called the blockchain.

Bitcoin enabled an innovative platform for peer to peer transfer of value without any central authority.
By implementing software programs for validation, verification, consensus in a novel infrastructure called the blockchain


## What is blockchain:

	Blockchain is a decentralized database that stores registry of assets and tx across a peer to peer network. It is a public registry who owns what and who txs what

	Blockchain is about enabling peer to peer transaction in a decentralized network. 
	Establishing trust among unknown peers. 
	Recording the transaction in an immutable distributed ledger.

	Blockchain technology supports methods for a decentralized peer-to-peer system, a collective trust model, and a distributed immutable ledger of records of transactions.


Reading:

Bitcoin Whitepaper
Bitcoin's Academic Pedigree
What is Blockchain Technology? A Step-by-Step Guide For Beginners
Blockchain: The Invisible Technology That's Changing the World



## Blockchain Structure:

	- Transactions form basic element of the bitcoin blockchain
	- Transactions are validated and broadcast. 
	- Many transactions form a block. 
	- Many box form a chain through a digital data link. 
	- Blocks go through a consensus process, to select the next block that will be added to the chain. 
	- Chosen block is verified, and added to the current chain. 
	- Validation and consensus process are carried out by special peer nodes called miners.


## UTXO:

	- A fundamental concept of a bitcoin network is an Unspent Transaction Output, also known as UTXO. 
	- The set of all UTXOs in a bitcoin network collectively define the state of the Bitcoin Blockchain. 
	- UTXO's are referenced as inputs in a transaction. 
	- UTXO's are also outputs generated by a transaction. 
	- Now let's review the role of the UTXO's in a Bitcoin Blockchain. 
	- The transaction uses the amount specified by one or more UTXOs and transmits it to one or more newly created output UTXOs, according to the request initiated by the sender. 

## The structure of a given UTXO is very simple:

	- It includes a unique identifier of the transaction that created this UTXO, 
	- an index or the position of the UTXO in the transaction output list, 
	- a value or the amount it is good for. 
	- And an optional script, the condition under which the output can be spent. 


## More on UTXO: Unspent Transaction Output, UTXO
### BTC:

	- The sum of these outputs is the user’s total balance. 
	- On the blockchain, they appear to be a collection of Bitcoin amounts on different addresses and the role of a wallet is to identify which addresses the user has keys to. 
	- Individual Bitcoin are easy to track because they are signed from one person to another. 
	- A transaction is valid if one can prove ownership over the actual Bitcoin s/he is trying to send.

### ETH:

- This is in contrast to ethereum's account model, which stores information about the entire balance associated with a user’s account. 
- Other users send tokens to and from their own accounts. 
- Individual ETH are more difficult to track because they are added and subtracted to user balances. 
- A transaction is valid if one can prove ownership over the account and the account’s balance is high enough to support it.
ß