## Blockchain Structure

- Transactions form basic element of the bitcoin blockchain
- Transactions are validated and broadcast. 
- Many transactions form a block. 
- Many box form a chain through a digital data link. 
- Blocks go through a consensus process, to select the next block that will be added to the chain. 
- Chosen block is verified, and added to the current chain. 
- Validation and consensus process are carried out by special peer nodes called miners.


### UTXO:

- A fundamental concept of a bitcoin network is an Unspent Transaction Output, also known as UTXO. 
- The set of all UTXOs in a bitcoin network collectively define the state of the Bitcoin Blockchain. 
- UTXO's are referenced as inputs in a transaction. 
- UTXO's are also outputs generated by a transaction. 
- Now let's review the role of the UTXO's in a Bitcoin Blockchain. 
- The transaction uses the amount specified by one or more UTXOs and transmits it to one or more newly created output UTXOs, according to the request initiated by the sender. 

### The structure of a given UTXO is very simple:

- It includes a unique identifier of the transaction that created this UTXO, 
- an index or the position of the UTXO in the transaction output list, 
- a value or the amount it is good for. 
- And an optional script, the condition under which the output can be spent. 


### More on UTXO: [Unspent Transaction Output, UTXO](https://www.smithandcrown.com/definition/unspent-transaction-outputs-utxo/)
### BTC:

- The sum of these outputs is the user’s total balance. 
- On the blockchain, they appear to be a collection of Bitcoin amounts on different addresses and the role of a wallet is to identify which addresses the user has keys to. 
- Individual Bitcoin are easy to track because they are signed from one person to another. 
- A transaction is valid if one can prove ownership over the actual Bitcoin s/he is trying to send.

### ETH:

- This is in contrast to ethereum's account model, which stores information about the entire balance associated with a user’s account. 
- Other users send tokens to and from their own accounts. 
- Individual ETH are more difficult to track because they are added and subtracted to user balances. 
- A transaction is valid if one can prove ownership over the account and the account’s balance is high enough to support it.

<p align="right">
   <a link="https://github.com/krishnajiraoh/Blockchain/blob/main/Materials/1.%20Blockchain%20Basics/1.1%20Blockchain%20Defined/1.1.3%20Basic%20Operations.md">Next Chapter</a>
</p>
