Smart Contracts:

	• Bitcoin supports an optional and special feature called scripts for conditional transfer of values. 
	• Ethereum Blockchain extended the scripting feature into a full-blown code execution framework called smart contract. 
	• A smart contract provide the very powerful capability of code execution for embedding business logic on the blockchain. 

Based on such capabilities, three major types of blockchains emerge from Bitcoin foundation.

	• Type one deals with the coins in cryptocurrency currency chain. Example, Bitcoin. 
	• Type two supports cryptocurrency and a business logic layer supported by code execution. Example, Ethereum. 
	• Type three involves no currency but supports software execution for business logic. Example, The Linux Foundation's Hyperledger


Categories
	• Public, ex Bitcoin
		○ Developers restriction, 
	• Private:
		○ Less chance of an attack, cheaper transactions, trusted, privacy, alter rules as needed
	• Permissioned
		○ meant for a consortium of collaborating parties to transact on a blockchain for ease of governance, provenance, and accountability for example, 
		○ Ex: a consortium of all automobile companies or healthcare organizations. 
	
	
	
What’s the difference between a blockchain a a normal database? 
	• Very loosely, a blockchain system is a package which contains a normal database plus some software that adds new rows, validates that new rows conform to pre-agreed rules, and listens and broadcasts new rows to its peers across a network, ensuring that all peers have the same data in their databases.



<iimgage>
