## Design Improvements

### Possible Improvements:
- need to make sure we don't save unnecessary data on the blockchain. 
	- blockchain is not a data repository. 
- is there a way to log the events happening on the chain? 
	- Either for getting a notification of completion of an operation or if something needs attention. 
- smart contracts cannot access the outside links, 
	- Is there a provision to get outside information that will still keep the blockchain consistent? 
	- Then how do we solve this problem of accessing an external resource from a smart contract? 


####
- Minimize the footprint on the immutable ledger in the blockchain. 
- Manage ownership and lifespan of a smart contract. 
- Organize related smart contract using interfaces in inheritance for reuse and proper type classification


#### Memory & Storage Keywords:
- By default, all the state changes to the variables defines in the smart contract, are saved as state on the blockchain. 
- the state hash of the ethereum block header, is computed using Merkle tree or Patricia Merkle tree of the state variables. 
- our goal is to minimize the state or the footprint of the Smart Contract and lower the gas costs.

####
- One of the ways you can accomplish this, is by correctly using memory and storage keywords. 
- Memory is transient memory in RAM and storage refers to persistent store in the permanent storage device like your hard drive. 
- Memory is temporary and is a race between function calls. 
	- Memory is a byte array. It's cheaper to use in Ethereum. 
- Every contract is assigned a storage space and this storage is permanent. 
	- The values in it persists between function calls. 
	- Storage is a key value store of 32 bytes each for the key and the value. 
	- All storage data is considered a state and used in the computation of state hash route of the header. 
- Using a memory location, cause few gas points, 1-3, whereas storage costs in the order of thousands of points.  Twenty thousand points to set up, 5,000 points to change a value and so on.
- While a struct or array is used as a parameter or a local variable in a function,  declare them as memory variables.

#### Self-destruct
- To delete or kill a smart contract, Solidity provides a function called self-destruct. 
	- This call is irreversible as per the default blockchain protocol. 
	- Once killed, the smart contract cannot be revived or accessed
- What happens when a kill function is executed. 
	- The smart contract code is removed from the state of the blockchain, if the conditions specified by the modifier are satisfied
	- selfdestruct sends all remaining Ether stored in the contract to a designated address.
	
#### Ownership:
- During the lifetime of an asset, ownership may change. 
- It may change due to the sale of an asset, donation of an asset or by bequeathment. 


#### Inheritance:
- It is possible a complex application could be composed of many smart contracts, one instantiating the other or inheriting others. 
- It is also possible that the symbols or namespace for an organization is defined in a common smart contract that needs to be applied. 
- Import command can be used to include files in your smart contract. 
- At the time of compilation, associations are made between the important files and the current smart contract and the byte code is generated based on this association. 


#### Libraries
- it is possible to create libraries and import existing libraries into your Solidity smart contract code. 
- Libraries are special smart contract with no ether balance, no payable functions and no state to be stored in the block chain. 
- A fine example is a SafeMath.sol by Zeppelin, that can be included in your smart contract for any math computation.

<p align="right">
   <a href="./3.3.2 Event Handling.md">Next Chapter</a>
</p>
