	- The Linux Foundation initiated the Hyperledger project in 2015 to promote cross industry collaborations. 
	- The goal was and remains to bring together stakeholders, technology providers, and developers to advance the development and adoption of blockchain solutions. 
	- This kind of collaboration among industrial partners and community of developers also helps in understanding the collective needs of the users and in minimizing the duplication of the efforts in design and engineering. 
	- It can also improve the pace of advancement especially in this nascent technology where numerous challenges are still waiting to be solved. 

	- The Hyperledger is an ecosystem supporting not only blockchain protocol, the distributed ledger, and the smart contract, but it also supports the framework and tools for active engagement and collaboration of developers, businesses, and other stakeholders. 
	- The overarching goals are to promote the development of a safe, reliable, efficient, innovative, quality driven open-source components and platform to support enterprise adoption of the blockchain technology. 
	- The Linux Foundation, the members, and associates have established a home, and an environment for supporting these goals. 
	- The basic framework for Hyperledger is defined by the Linux Foundation. 
	- The member organization can then design their blockchain by extending this definition. 
	- This project also helps to build tools and frameworks and support educational and application development activities. 
	- It is expected that under the umbrella of well-defined specifications, blockchain modules created by various members will be pluggable into each other's technology environment.

### The Hyperledger logo depicts the goals of the Hyperledger Project.
	- Re-use of common building blocks, 
	- Diverse developer community,
	- Rapid experimentation, 
	- extensible codebases, 
	- flexible modification of any component.

### The five frameworks are: 
	- Fabric, 
	- Sawtooth, 
	- Indy, 
	- Iroha, and
	- Burrows

	- Bitcoin protocol defined the transactions of a blockchain in  terms of UTXOs, Unspent Transaction Outputs. 
	- Ethereum protocol introduces smart contract and the concept of an account. 
	- The Hyperledger Fabric goes further than this in defining a whole business network with roles and assets and aligning the protocol closer to real-world application

### Difference B/w Hyperledger & Bitcoin/Ethereum:
	- In Hyperledger protocol there is no cryptocurrency.
		○ Hyperledger is designed for handling only business logic, such as the smart contract functionality.
		○ The smart contract code is called chaincode in Hyperledger.

	- Fabric is a permissioned blockchain, and unknown peers cannot join and leave the network as they wish.

	- Mining :
		○ PBFT, Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance, versus proof of work of Bitcoin blockchain.


