## Consensus 
- Consensus means general agreement. 
- In the context of blockchain operation, consensus is an agreement among the full nodes about the next block to be added to the chain. 
- This ensures the integrity of the chain. 
- Even among the known permissioned entities, we need consensus
#
- Bitcoin used Proof of Work, or POW, and Ethereum followed it with slight modifications. 
- In the current version, Ethereum Metropolis, it still utilizes Proof of Work. 
- However, Ethereum Metropolis protocol uses a memory based proof of work that is not energy intensive.
- In the upcoming fork, Ethereum Constantinople, the plan is to switch to POS, or Proof of Stake.

### POS:
- In Proof of Stake, the full node with the most at stake or most coin is chosen for adding the next block.
- The idea is, that node with the most stake will not be malicious and risk its stake for forking the network.
- To avoid monopoly by the node with most stake, an age based round robin policy is used in addition to the basic POS.
- The minter fee is paid by the transaction fees, and there'll be no minor fee such as in POW. 
- The POS approach is environment friendly and efficient, and is being popularly adopted by many blockchain platforms.

### Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance, PBFT:
- This algorithm is proven to tolerate random or Byzantine node failures, including malicious nodes.
- In PBFT, nodes vote to elect a leader and that leader adds the next block to the chain.
- Each node maintains the state of the network. 
- The nodes exchange messages. 
- The messages, along with the saved state, are used to reach a consensus in the presence of random independent faults, or bad nodes. 
- The chosen node adds the next block of validated transactions.
- PBFT is popular in permissioned block chains, such as hyperledger fabric.

<p align="right">
   <a href="./4.3.2 Scalability.md">Next Chapter</a>
</p>
