## Scalability

- Blockchain has taken on the responsibility of the intermediaries in the form of validation, verification, and recording of the transactions, and of course, the consensus process for the integrity of the chain. 
- All these functions take time and result in significant overhead in the confirmation time of transactions, when compared to the centralized system.

- Metric for Scalability: 
	- transactions per second
- Two solutions:
	- On-chain
	- Off-chain

### On-Chain:
- The most obvious method to improve transaction rate is to increase the number of transactions per block. 
- Bitcoin addressed it in two ways, 
	- segregated witness and increase in block size limit. 
	- In segregated witness or SegWit:
		- the transactions and the signatures are segregated for allowing for more transactions per block. 
		- This was a soft fork that materialized in 2017. 
		- It's working in the current version of the Bitcoin blockchain. 
	- However, in the current version, the block size limit is fixed at one megabyte. 
	- The second proposal for scalability was to increase the block size limit to a larger size of two megabyte. 
	- In this case, the original block will hold the sender and receiver data and transactions, the new block structure will hold the signatures and script, or the witness. 
	- Thus, the name of the improvement is called SegWit2X, or Segregated Witness 2X. 
	- It was a planned hard fork that was to have taken place in November 2017, but did not go through
- In Ethereum, block size can vary, and is limited by the gas limits specified in the block header. 
- It can be increased by miners working on it. 
- The number of transactions in a block dictates the block size.

### Off-chain:
- One of the solutions to address transaction rate is to unload some of the transactions off-chain. 
- This is carried out between trusted transacting parties. 
- Once the unload has concluded, a transaction confirming this off-chain activity is recorded on-chain on the blockchain DLT. 
- This feature in Bitcoin is called payment channel. 
- Payment transactions can be carried out with minimal fees at considerable higher rates between trusted parties. 
- Lightning network is a well known blockchain implementing this protocol. 

<p align="right">
   <a href="./4.3.3 Privacy & Confidentiality.md">Next Chapter</a>
</p>
