### Escrow:
	• Wikipedia defines escrow as a contractual agreement in which a third party receives and disburses money or document for a primary transacting parties, with the disbursement dependent on conditions agreed to by the transacting parties. 
	• A smart contract can do all this. 
	• It can hold money and all artefacts in an escrow, and allow transacting parties to negotiate on it, and verify conditions to be met before the disbursement of the items in the escrow. 
	• What is innovative is that, it can be done among parties that are operating beyond boundaries of trust in a decentralized world. 
	
	• A smart contract has an address that can hold a balance. 
	• You can transact, send or receive cryptocurrency from the smart contract. 
	• You can use three specific features of smart contract to develop escrow-based application. 
		○ Include that mount of escrow as a state variable, example;  uint escrow amount. 
		○ Use modifiers to specify the condition for disbursement of escrow. 
		○ Define functions that apply the modifiers for verifying conditions for disbursement of the amount

### Multi-sig:
	• In many cases it may be required by law that multiple parties sign a document. 
	• Many business transactions warrant multiple signatures to the CTO, I.T. manager, and so on. 
	• If the private key is compromised anyone with private key can drain the funds at the corresponding address. 
	• These concerns can be addressed by enforcing multiple signatures for execution of certain important transactions. 
	• bitcoin has used this idea successfully since 2012. 
	• Bitcoin has an alternative to a single key address. 
		○ This is defined by a type of address called pay to script hash (P2SH), a multisig address. 
		○ Multsig addresses in the bitcoin transactions begin with the digits three, whereas regular addresses begin with the digit one. 
		○ A pay to script hash address can support a set of n keys, any of m which are required to transact m of n. In practice, 
		○ most multisigs are two out of three, two out of two, though larger values of m and n can be used for such use cases as legal documents. 

