## Forks  
- Forks are just normal processes in an evolutionary path of the nascent technology enabling a blockchain.


### Soft Fork:
- occasionally, a minor process adjustment has to be carried out typically by bootstrapping a new software to the already running processes. 
- This is soft fork. 
- For example, the script concept in Bitcoin was introduced using this method. 
- You can think of this as a software patch or a bug fix to address an issue. 

### Hard Fork:
- Hard fork implies a major change in the protocol. 
- For example, the recent change from Ethereum Homestead to Metropolis Byzantium version was a planned hard fork
- Important note : after a hard fork the emerging two chains are incompatible.

### Let's discuss the hard fork that happened on October 17, 2017. 
#### The Ethereum hard fork was a planned fork. Here are a few Ethereum improvement proposals (EIP) for this fork, 
- parallel processing of transactions. 
- Proof of Work consensus still stays except that every hundred block, Proof of Stake consensus protocol, is applied for evaluating the latter. 
- And miner incentive was reduced from 5 ethers to 3 ethers for block creation. 


### Summary:
- Soft fork and Hard fork in the blockchain world are like the release of software patches, and new versions of operating systems respectively. 
- Forks are mechanisms that add to the robustness of the blockchain framework. 
- Well-managed forks help build credibility in the blockchain by providing approaches to manage unexpected faults and planned improvements.

<p align="right">
   <a href="../Key Takeaways.md">Next Chapter</a>
</p>
