## Robustness

- Robustness is the ability to satisfactorily manage exceptional situations. 
- It's all the more important in a decentralized autonomous network such as a blockchain where there are no intermediaries minding the store.


### Chain Split
- what if more than one miner solves the consensus puzzle very close in time to each other? 
- Bitcoin protocol allows this chain split or two chains for the next cycle, one led by each of the competing blocks. 
- The probability that the next block will happen at the same time in both these chains is extremely low. 
- So the winner of the next cycle for block creation consolidates one of the chains and that chain becomes the accepted chain. 
- In this case, the newest block is added to the main chain. Now this chain is the longest and the valid main chain. 
- The transaction in the other blocks are returned to the unconfirmed pool. 
- Summarizing, with a very low probability, the main chain may split but if it does,  the bitcoin protocol has methods to consolidate it to a single chain within a cycle.


### Double spending
- What if more than one transaction references as input the same digital asset? 
- This situation is called double spending.
- Double spending is reusing digital assets intentionally or inadvertently. 
- A policy for handling transaction and double spending in  Bitcoin is to allow the first transaction that reference the digital asset and reject the rest of the transaction that reference the same digital asset. 
- In Ethereum, a combination of account number and a global nonce is used to address the doublet spending issue. 
- Every time a transaction is initiated by an account, a global nonce is included in the transaction. 
- After that, the nonce is incremented. 
- Time stamp on the nonce in the transaction should be unique and verified to prevent any double use of digital asset. 

#### Summarizing, well-defined processes for handling exception, improve trust in the blockchain

<p align="right">
   <a href="./1.4.4 Forks.md">Next Chapter</a>
</p>

